---
layout: post
title:  "Why R?"
date:   2015-11-09 22:35:04
categories: liuqianchao update
---

As one of the hottest programming languages, R has attracted lots of attention from people who are interested in data analysis. Although python, an advanced and high-level programming language, has satisfied most of needs for data processing, R still has some special advantages. In this short article, I will give a brief intro to R.  

### The advantages  
More professional packages that are ralated with data analytics have been created, there are more than 5000 



### Some interesting packages in R   
[**ggplot2**](http://ggplot2.org/)   
python is good at the process of acquiring and handling data, but the ability of data visualization is 
"relatively weak". In general, we use **matplotlib** and other libraries to draw figures in Python. The matpoltlib is one of high quality libraies, however, the number of high quality libraries to draw figures are much smaller than that of R. Here in R, one of the most widely known packages to draw beautiful plots is **ggplot2**.   

[**Rweibo**](http://jliblog.com/app/rweibo)   
Rweibo is a package based on official API of Sina Weibo. Although there are serious limits of offcial API, such as the maximum quantity of comments allowed for acquiring is 2000 for each Weibo post, the official API can satisfy a smale-scale applicaiton.   
**rMaps**

### Can we use R in a more familiar way?  
Actually, We can use **rpy2**, which is an interface to R running embedded in Python. With the help of this interface, we can take advantage of R in the code of Python.   
To install the package of rpy2 (via pip in your terminal):   
 ```pip install pip```   


Find documentation of rpy2 at [rpy.sourceforge.net/](http://rpy.sourceforge.net/)   
In this way, we can complete our daily tasks in codes of Python. 